doc-content/enterprise-only/installation/eap-users-create-proc.adoc, before:

[id='eap-users-create-proc_{context}']

= Creating users
If you used the deployable ZIP files to install {PRODUCT}, before you can log in to {CENTRAL} or {KIE_SERVER}, you must create users. This section shows you how to create a {CENTRAL} user with the `admin`, `rest-all`, and `kie-server` roles and a {KIE_SERVER} user that has the `kie-server` role. For information about roles, see xref:roles-users-con_install-on-eap[].

NOTE: If you used the installer to install {PRODUCT}, you created at least one user during that process. The `EAP_HOME/standalone/configuration/application-users.properties` file contains application users and their passwords.

.Prerequisites
* {PRODUCT} is installed in the base directory of the {EAP} installation (`_EAP_HOME_`).

.Procedure
. In a terminal application, navigate to the `__EAP_HOME__/bin` directory.
ifdef::PAM[]
. Create a user with the `admin`, `rest-all`, and `kie-server` roles that you will use to log in to {CENTRAL}.
+
NOTE: Users with the `admin` role are {CENTRAL} administrators. Users with `rest-all` role can access {CENTRAL} REST capabilities. Users with the `kie-server` role can access {KIE_SERVER} (KIE Server) REST capabilities. The `kie-server` role is mandatory for users to have access to *Manage* and *Track* views in {CENTRAL}.
endif::[]
ifdef::DM[]
. Create a user with the `admin`, `rest-all`, and `kie-server` roles.
+
NOTE: Users with the `admin` role are {CENTRAL} administrators. Users with `rest-all` role can access {CENTRAL} REST capabilities. Users with the `kie-server` role can access {KIE_SERVER} (KIE Server) REST capabilities.
endif::[]
+
In the following command, replace `<USERNAME>` and  `<PASSWORD>` with the user name and password of your choice:
+
ifdef::PAM[]
[source,bash]
----
$ ./bin/jboss-cli.sh --commands="embed-server --std-out=echo,/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity(identity=<USERNAME>),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:set-password(identity=<USERNAME>, clear={password='<PASSWORD>'}),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity-attribute(identity=<USERNAME>, name=role, value=['admin','rest-all','kie-server'])"
----
endif::[]
ifdef::DM[]
[source,bash]
----
$ ./bin/jboss-cli.sh --commands="embed-server --std-out=echo,/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity(identity=<USERNAME>),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:set-password(identity=<USERNAME>, clear={password='<PASSWORD>'}),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity-attribute(identity=<USERNAME>, name=role, value=['admin','rest-all','kie-server'])"
----
endif::[]
+
[NOTE]
====
Make sure that the specified user name is not the same as an existing user, role, or group. For example, do not create a user with the user name `admin`.

The password must have at least eight characters and must contain at least one number and one non-alphanumeric character, but not & (ampersand).
====
. Create a user with the `kie-server` role that you will use to log in to {KIE_SERVER}.
+
ifdef::PAM[]
[source,bash]
----
$ ./bin/jboss-cli.sh --commands="embed-server --std-out=echo,/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity(identity=<USERNAME>),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:set-password(identity=<USERNAME>, clear={password='<PASSWORD>'}),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity-attribute(identity=<USERNAME>, name=role, value=['kie-server'])"
----
endif::[]
ifdef::DM[]
[source,bash]
----
$ ./bin/jboss-cli.sh --commands="embed-server --std-out=echo,/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity(identity=<USERNAME>),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:set-password(identity=<USERNAME>, clear={password='<PASSWORD>'}),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity-attribute(identity=<USERNAME>, name=role, value=['kie-server'])"
----
endif::[]
. Make a note of your user names and passwords.
+
[NOTE]
====
If you installed {CENTRAL} and {KIE_SERVER} in the same server instance, you can create a single user that has both of these roles:
[source,bash]
----
$ ./bin/jboss-cli.sh --commands="embed-server --std-out=echo,/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity(identity=<USERNAME>),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:set-password(identity=<USERNAME>, clear={password='<PASSWORD>'}),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity-attribute(identity=<USERNAME>, name=role, value=['admin','rest-all','kie-server'])"
----
You should install {CENTRAL} and {KIE_SERVER} on different servers in production environments.
====
+
[NOTE]
====
You can create several users at once using a single file containing the data for all the users.

[source,bash]
----
$ ./bin/jboss-cli.sh --file=users.cli
----

where the users.cli file contains user data such as in the following example:

[source,bash]
----
embed-server --std-out=echo

# first user
/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity(identity=<USERNAME>)
/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:set-password(identity=<USERNAME>, clear={password='<PASSWORD>'})
/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity-attribute(identity=<USERNAME>, name=role, value=['admin','role','group'])

# second user
...
----
====

Commit message:

Adds note about file-based property-based users

doc-content/enterprise-only/installation/eap-users-create-proc.adoc, after:

[id='eap-users-create-proc_{context}']

= Creating users
If you used the deployable ZIP files to install {PRODUCT}, before you can log in to {CENTRAL} or {KIE_SERVER}, you must create users. This section shows you how to create a {CENTRAL} user with the `admin`, `rest-all`, and `kie-server` roles and a {KIE_SERVER} user that has the `kie-server` role. For information about roles, see xref:roles-users-con_install-on-eap[].

[NOTE]
====
It is recommended to use file-based users in {PRODUCT} rather than properties-based users. You can change to using file-based users by running the following command:

[source,bash]
----
$ ./bin/elytron-tool.sh filesystem-realm --users-file application-users.properties --roles-file application-roles.properties --output-location kie-fs-realm-users
----
====

.Prerequisites
* {PRODUCT} is installed in the base directory of the {EAP} installation (`_EAP_HOME_`).

.Procedure
. In a terminal application, navigate to the `__EAP_HOME__/bin` directory.
ifdef::PAM[]
. Create a user with the `admin`, `rest-all`, and `kie-server` roles that you will use to log in to {CENTRAL}.
+
NOTE: Users with the `admin` role are {CENTRAL} administrators. Users with `rest-all` role can access {CENTRAL} REST capabilities. Users with the `kie-server` role can access {KIE_SERVER} (KIE Server) REST capabilities. The `kie-server` role is mandatory for users to have access to *Manage* and *Track* views in {CENTRAL}.
endif::[]
ifdef::DM[]
. Create a user with the `admin`, `rest-all`, and `kie-server` roles.
+
NOTE: Users with the `admin` role are {CENTRAL} administrators. Users with `rest-all` role can access {CENTRAL} REST capabilities. Users with the `kie-server` role can access {KIE_SERVER} (KIE Server) REST capabilities.
endif::[]
+
In the following command, replace `<USERNAME>` and  `<PASSWORD>` with the user name and password of your choice:
+
ifdef::PAM[]
[source,bash]
----
$ ./bin/jboss-cli.sh --commands="embed-server --std-out=echo,/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity(identity=<USERNAME>),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:set-password(identity=<USERNAME>, clear={password='<PASSWORD>'}),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity-attribute(identity=<USERNAME>, name=role, value=['admin','rest-all','kie-server'])"
----
endif::[]
ifdef::DM[]
[source,bash]
----
$ ./bin/jboss-cli.sh --commands="embed-server --std-out=echo,/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity(identity=<USERNAME>),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:set-password(identity=<USERNAME>, clear={password='<PASSWORD>'}),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity-attribute(identity=<USERNAME>, name=role, value=['admin','rest-all','kie-server'])"
----
endif::[]
+
[NOTE]
====
Make sure that the specified user name is not the same as an existing user, role, or group. For example, do not create a user with the user name `admin`.

The password must have at least eight characters and must contain at least one number and one non-alphanumeric character, but not & (ampersand).
====
. Create a user with the `kie-server` role that you will use to log in to {KIE_SERVER}.
+
ifdef::PAM[]
[source,bash]
----
$ ./bin/jboss-cli.sh --commands="embed-server --std-out=echo,/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity(identity=<USERNAME>),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:set-password(identity=<USERNAME>, clear={password='<PASSWORD>'}),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity-attribute(identity=<USERNAME>, name=role, value=['kie-server'])"
----
endif::[]
ifdef::DM[]
[source,bash]
----
$ ./bin/jboss-cli.sh --commands="embed-server --std-out=echo,/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity(identity=<USERNAME>),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:set-password(identity=<USERNAME>, clear={password='<PASSWORD>'}),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity-attribute(identity=<USERNAME>, name=role, value=['kie-server'])"
----
endif::[]
. Make a note of your user names and passwords.
+
[NOTE]
====
If you installed {CENTRAL} and {KIE_SERVER} in the same server instance, you can create a single user that has both of these roles:
[source,bash]
----
$ ./bin/jboss-cli.sh --commands="embed-server --std-out=echo,/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity(identity=<USERNAME>),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:set-password(identity=<USERNAME>, clear={password='<PASSWORD>'}),/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity-attribute(identity=<USERNAME>, name=role, value=['admin','rest-all','kie-server'])"
----
You should install {CENTRAL} and {KIE_SERVER} on different servers in production environments.
====
+
[NOTE]
====
You can create several users at once using a single file containing the data for all the users.

[source,bash]
----
$ ./bin/jboss-cli.sh --file=users.cli
----

where the users.cli file contains user data such as in the following example:

[source,bash]
----
embed-server --std-out=echo

# first user
/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity(identity=<USERNAME>)
/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:set-password(identity=<USERNAME>, clear={password='<PASSWORD>'})
/subsystem=elytron/filesystem-realm=ApplicationRealm:add-identity-attribute(identity=<USERNAME>, name=role, value=['admin','role','group'])

# second user
...
----
====
